---
date: 2023-08-06
---

# Issue #12: State Surveillance, Passkeys, DOMParser

And 3, 2, 1… I’m back 🥳

Good morning lovely people! This is Abdu from “Software Summaries” now rebranded as “Just Enough” 🚀

After a long absence, I am finally back to posting again and with strong content and energy to share and spread the
knowledge I learned during the week with you.

The past couple of months weren’t the nicest and gave me a different prospective towards life and priority re-ordering.
There is going to be changes upcoming and I would like you all to be part of it!

## Technical Summaries

### 5-eyes, 9-eyes, 14-eyes

With the rise of Far-right and weakened democracies, privacy is a becoming a concern for many people. Awareness is the
first step to protect your privacy especially if you are doing things your state might not like.

The 5-eyes, 9-eyes and 14-eyes are intelligence alliances between countries to share intelligence information between
them:

- **5-eyes**: US, UK, Canada, Australia, New Zealand
- **9-eyes**: 5-eyes + Denmark, France, Netherlands, Norway
- **14-eyes**: 9-eyes + Germany, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Sweden

They share a wide range of intelligence information between them and they are known to spy on their citizens and other
countries.

So if you are doing something that might be illegal (event activism work) in these countries, you might want to use a
services (ex: Mail, Hosting, VPN, ...etc) that is not based in these countries.

Read More:

- [Five Eyes, Nine Eyes, 14 Eyes (What to Avoid in 2024)](https://restoreprivacy.com/5-eyes-9-eyes-14-eyes/)

### Passkeys

Passkeys are a new way to authenticate users without the need for passwords. It's a more secure and user-friendly method
that uses public-key cryptography to verify the user's identity.

The passkey is generated by the user's device and it generates a public and private key pair. The public key is sent to
the server, while the private key remains on the user's device. When the user wants to authenticate, the server sends a
challenge to the user's device, which is signed with the private key. The server then verifies the signature using the
public key and authenticates the user.

This approach eliminates the need for passwords, which are often weak and easily compromised. It also provides a more
secure and user-friendly authentication method that is resistant to phishing attacks and other security threats.

Read more:

- [FIDO Promises a Life Without Passwords](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRFeuSH9t44)

### DOMParser

`DOMParser` is used for converting strings into DOM elements aka. parsing HTML string into a structured document using
the `parseFromString` method and it will
return a Document object which we can then use `adoptNode` to transfer a node from one document to another or use
`cloneNode` to create a copy of a node within a document.

It’s similar to `innerHTML` but it’s safer as it doesn’t run the JS Code inline of the string which allows also to do
transformations before `appendChild` it to the current Document.

```js
// Create an HTML string
const htmlString = "<div><p>Hello, DOMParser!</p></div>";

// Create a new DOMParser
const parser = new DOMParser();

// Use the parseFromString method to parse the HTML string
const parsedDocument = parser.parseFromString(htmlString, "text/html");

// Get the first element from the parsed document
const parsedNode = parsedDocument.body.firstChild;

// Get the parent element in the current document where the parsed node will be appended
const parentElement = document.getElementById("parent");

// Adopt the parsed node to the current document
const adoptedNode = document.adoptNode(parsedNode);

// Append the adopted node to the parent element
parentElement.appendChild(adoptedNode);
```

Read more:

- [`DOMParser` by mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMParser)
- [`document.adoptNode` by mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/adoptNode)
- [`document.cloneNode` by mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Node/cloneNode)

## Videos of the Week

### Advanced React Course

@[youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5hXoIIRoWqQ)

### MacBook for $36 👀

@[youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LaZGFESvEJA)
